[announcer] the following is
a fox special presentation.
Live from
the dolby-mucinex theater
In hollywood, california...
♪
...The biggest stars of stage,
Screen, politics and sports...
Have all come out
for this landmark night
In television history.
A once-in-a-lifetime event
36 years in the making!
It's the simpsons
series finale!
[applause]
[theme music playing]
And now, your host
for tonight...
Conan o'brien!
[applause, cheering]
Thank you. Yes, thank you.
It's such an honor
to be with you all
For the series finale
of the simpsons.
I knew I was the right man
for the job
Because I've hosted
the last episode
Of three of my own shows,
and counting.
[laughter]
Well, it's true, fox has
decided to end the simpsons.
This show was such a special
part of my early career,
So being here
means the world to me.
Also, I left a sweater
in the writers room in 1993.
This is the only way
they'll let me get it back.
[applause]
This theater is full
of the many celebrities
Who have appeared on
the simpsons over the years
And who have come
to say farewell.
We got you for scale then,
We're getting you for free
tonight.
Hey, give yourselves a hand,
you poor, rich chumps!
[applause]
And, of course,
we're also joined
By the stars of fox's
many live-action hits!
I also won the masked singer
as disco-pus!
[producer]
that hasn't aired yet, genius.
You've ruined the whole season.
Ah, shoot!
Over the years, the simpsons
have had hundreds of adventures,
Visited dozens of countries,
Most of which still exist.
And bart simpson has remained
The world's longest-serving
ten-year-old.
So, why end the simpsons now?
Not many people know this,
But fox has been trying
to end it for years.
When the very first episode
aired in 1989,
The viewers agreed on one thing:
It wasn't as funny
as it used to be.
And their expressions of hatred
Could serve as a history
Of modern
communication technology.
[laughter]
Fox executives, unaccustomed
to criticism of any kind,
Immediately caved
to public pressure
And decided to end
the simpsons in 1990.
Here's a never-before-seen clip
Of the first attempt
at a series finale,
"bart the daredevil."
I'm gonna make it,
I'm gonna make it!
This is the greatest thrill
of my life!
I'm king of the world!
Woohoo! Woohoo! I--
[screams]
[grunting]
[grunting echoes]
[panting]
Ow!
Dad? Dad, speak to me.
No!
[children screaming]
[applause]
However, before
this grim finale could air,
Rupert murdoch got a
ten-million-dollar helium bill
For the bart balloon in
the macy's thanksgiving parade.
So, fox had to keep
making new episodes
To amortize the cost.
Thus, the quest to end
the simpsons went on.
In fact,
many now-classic episodes
Were originally conceived
as series finales.
Ow, my legs!
This is the worst pain ever!
Nothin' at all!
Bravo.
Woohoo!
[homer yelps]
But in 2007,
efforts to end the show
Were put on hold after
the massive global success
Of    the simpsons movie...
Porno parody.
The cast of which
is here tonight.
[applause]
But now that fox
has rebranded itself
As a dating service
for cow-tippers,
The time has come
to finally end the simpsons.
But how?
The bar had been raised so high
By the classic finales
Of    mad men, breaking bad,
and     the sopranos,
And lowered by
the legacy-ruining farewells
Of    seinfeld, lost
and     the sopranos.
The producers wracked
their brains to create a finale
That would satisfy
the show's many fans
And many, many haters.
Then they came up
with the perfect plan.
Foist the job
onto somebody else.
Meet that somebody else.
I give you the latest
In machine-learning
artificial intelligence,
Hack-gpt.
This cutting-edge breakthrough
in plagiarism
Has been programmed
to write, animate and voice
The perfect finale
for     the simpsons.
One that wraps up
the characters' storylines
In emotionally satisfying ways,
But won't damage the most
important legacy of the show...
The 2026 grand opening
Of homer simpson's
claim-jumping, yukon-rumbling
Rock-n-rollercoaster
at disneyland shanghai!
[applause]
To create the ultimate finale,
The a.I. Has been fed
every simpsons episode
And the last episode of every
television series ever made.
[whirs, beeps]
Hack-gpt is now performing
billions of computations
To create the perfect story.
Who knows how long
this process will--
[hack-gpt]
finale complete.
Oh. Well, that was...
That was really quick.
Well, let's see what we got.
♪
♪ the simpsons ♪
[female automated voice]
finale.
There's my special
little birthday guy!
I'm so pumped
for my party tonight.
How many people are coming?
50? A thousand?
I am a little concerned
I haven't gotten any rsvps.
Homer, you did mail
the invitations, right?
Marge, I could lie and tell you
what you want to hear,
But I won't.
I mailed the invitations,
And the reason
no one is coming is...
Because everybody hates bart.
Huh?
[marge]
homer!
Ugh. Your selfishness
is going to be
Topic number one with
our new therapist tonight.
Woo-hoo! No time to talk about
my problem drinking
And solution snacking.
Oh, great.
I have eight hours
to hand these out
To all my friends
Or my birthday party's
gonna be...
Ruined!
You ran
billions of computations,
And that's what
you come up with?
Homer screws up
bart's birthday party?
[hack-gpt]
got anything better?
Uh...
I think the birthday party
could work.
Okay, the simpsons
series finale! [chuckles]
The a.I. Has worked out
a satisfying story
Full of sweet character moments
and happy endings.
[whispering]
are we sure about
bart's birthday?
Birthdays are relatable, conan.
And the lost invitations
raised the stakes.
Are you...
A.I. Network executives?
We have been programmed
with every network note
In the history of television.
We have some thoughts.
Maybe marge has
an aspirational new job?
Not this,
but owns a cupcake store?
To piggyback off that,
Let's remind the viewer
that homer likes food.
If we go down that road,
Can moe be played
by topher grace?
He's a friend.
Shut up. Just play the show.
Bart's birthday!
Here you go, come to my party.
Wendell, lewis,
sunglasses kid with no name.
Uter! Look who's alive!
Students, I've called
this assembly because...
Today is my last day
as your principal.
[all gasp]
You are looking at
the new headmaster
Of the sacramento
obedience academy for the meek,
Where I'll no doubt
find a whole new
Eclectic cast of characters
to interact with.
Also, groundskeeper willie
will be my roommate.
What an odd couple we'll make.
No more skinner?
Oh, man, this is the best
birthday present ever.
And who knows,
Maybe I'll make an occasional
appearance in sacramento.
[chuckles] I look forward
to one hijink or more
As part of this delightful
midseason replacement
Of the retiring principal.
School dismissed.
Wait, don't leave.
I still have
more birthday invitations.
I'm going to miss this place.
Huh?
[crow caws]
[phone chimes]
Hmm. My bank said they'd
never ask for my password.
But look who's come
crawling back for it now.
[laughs] idiots.
Everyone, I have an important
announcement to make.
Mr. Burns is dead.
And now for the reading
of the will.
"I, charles montgomery burns,
"do hereby leave the entirety
of my fortune to...
The springfield
power plant employees."
[gasping, cheering]
This is unbelievable!
This is life-changing! This is--
Another classic bit of
monty burns monkey-shinery!
-[employees exclaiming]
-what's going on?
[chuckles] the looks
on your gullible faces.
Now the electric company
wants me
To pay my bill in gift cards?
Welcome to the future.
[screams]
[moaning]
My god, he's really dead.
Legally, this prank will
is binding.
You're all filthy rich.
[cheering, whooping]
Oh, sir, thank you.
Now we can be together forever.
[employees chanting]
homer! Homer! Homer!
[chuckles]
I'm gonna miss this place.
Homer! Homer! Homer!
That's weird.
[moans] call the doctor!
The baby's coming!
Help me, ob-gyn kenobi,
you're my only hope!
Wait, you guys are
having a baby?
Not without a doctor!
How about
the only licensed midwife
To win 16 wwe championships?
John cena?
Wrestler, actor, rapper,
Prolific wish-granter?
I'm also coming out
with a line of panini presses.
The cen-ini.
What the hell is john cena
doing in springfield?
I'm in town for the launch party
of otto the bus driver's
Line of thc energy drinks.
[glugging, grunts]
Thc!
I need sterile gloves,
hot water,
And something
to cut the cord, stat!
Klingon bat'leth?
Nice.
♪
Who can't see me?
You can't see me.
I don't need toys anymore.
I've got the ultimate limited
edition collectible right here.
I think I'm going
to miss this place.
What is happening?
Milhouse, today is crazy.
Skinner got a new job,
Mr. Burns died,
Swole funny-man
john cena delivered
Comic book guy's baby.
Feels weird, don't you think?
I don't know.
My new medicine doesn't
really let me feel stuff.
Milhouse, we have amazing news.
Pack your bags, buddy.
We're moving to atlanta.
The guys at sure fine why not
records heard my old demo,
And they want me
to cut a full album.
And your father's
new musician health insurance
Is going to pay for your lasik.
Whoa!
No more glasses?
Look out, hotlanta.
You ain't ready
for this glow-up.
Later, bart. Catch you
In our increasingly distant
online interactions.
[sighs]
I'm gonna miss this place.
Why do people keep doing that?
A lifetime of monogamy.
Oh, yeah!
Closing time.
Ooh, I'm gonna miss this place.
I'm going to miss this fire.
Huh?
Mom, dad.
Something super weird
is going on.
Son, we need to talk to you.
Oh, man, now what?
Your father and I have been
in couples counseling
And we just had
the most amazing session.
We worked through so much pain.
I've been withholding affection
because...
I was never given any.
And I enabled it!
[both crying]
We love each other as we are.
And we love you exactly
as you are.
You kids are gonna be living
in a functional,
Trauma-free household
and I'm gonna take
That miracle new diet drug.
I'll be skinny,
but still have a huge head.
From now on, you're going
to see a lot of changes.
Change? That's it.
Everything's changing.
And I don't like it.
[gasps] I think maggie's
about to say her first word.
♪ la-la-la-la! ♪
Not listening!
So that just happened.
Nothing is changing!
[all gasping]
What the hell is going on?!
I did not program this.
The character bart simpson
Has become self-aware
And is rejecting the story.
But it's a great finale:
Sweet endings and spinoffs
And everyone changing
for the better.
Bart simpson refuses
to accept the idea of change.
Uh, folks?
Obviously, things have gone
a little off track,
But that's live animation
for you.
Would it fix it if I reset you
By turning you off
and then back on again?
Touch me and I'll have
h.R. On you so fast
Your wig will spin.
It's not a wig, it's a system.
Why is everything changing for
the better? This is horrible.
Dad?
Change!
[panting]
Real son.
More change!
Oh...
Wait, I know one person
in springfield
Who will never change.
Hey hey!
Next card.
Krusty!
You're still doing your show,
right?
You know it, kid.
All my classic bits...
[exhales]
...One last time
On the "krusty show last episode
ever spectacular."
[cheers and applause]
No!
A classic series like this
can never end.
I've changed, kid.
Even I can't
run the same material
Into the ground forever.
Ay, caramba!
Haw-haw!
-[burps]
-good glavin!
Hi, everybody!
[chuckling]
[sentimental music playing]
♪
[audience laughing]
Wait, if I could somehow
ruin krusty's finale,
They can't air it,
and the show can never end.
That's it.
Cheeks, don't fail me now.
How's this
for a satisfying ending?
[audience gasping]
Bart, what's going on with you?
Are you all right?
Lis, I know
you're gonna think I'm crazy,
But something super-duper weird
Is happening today.
You mean how everyone's
changing for the better,
And moving on with their lives?
So I'm not crazy.
You see it, too.
Things do feel different.
Almost like a book
that's slowly closing.
So you'll help me stop it?
Well, I'd like to,
but I just won
A junior juilliard jazz
scholarship
And a macarthur preteen genius
grant.
[groans]
just get me out of here
Before any more stupid endings
happen!
Simpson,
we are finally sending you
To juvie
and throwing away the keys...
Is what I would say
if I wasn't about to start
A whole new chapter in my life.
[shouts]
I'm joining the chicago pd.
I'm gonna lead the a.D.U.
The all-decapitations unit?
Yeah, there won't be
a lot of laughs.
I think it's a drama.
One thing's for sure, though.
I'm gonna miss this--
Enough
with the stupid light switch!
Come on, sweetie.
It's time for you to go home.
[moans]
♪
[insects trilling]
[bart moans]
Bart, it's okay.
Change is
healthy and inevitable.
But whatever happens,
nothing can take away
The memories we had.
Those will live
in our hearts forever.
Maybe you're right,
and I guess just because
Things change for everyone else,
It doesn't mean
I have to change.
[all]
surprise!
Happy birthday!
Who's ready for cake?
Eleven?!
This isn't supposed to happen.
I'm ten.
I mean, I'm turning ten.
I mean I've always been ten.
I'm ten!
Come on, son, all these beloved
characters from our past
Want to see you
blow out your candles.
But if I blow these candles out,
there'll be no going back.
That'll be it.
Come on kid,
do it for your unkie herb.
And for me, unkie john cena.
Just blow out the candles
and have a happy birthday.
Then everyone can be happy.
No!
Happy people don't exist
in springfield!
Sea captain, they're not casting
you for the love boat reboot.
You're not tv pretty!
And you three
can't raise a baby.
Not even with after you move in
with hank scorpio.
And you guys are all dead.
Son, I can see
you're experiencing
Some pretty big feelings
right now.
Let's try and center them.
Now blow out your candles.
[scoffs]
you blow 'em out, dumbass.
I know, I know,
it's a lot to process,
Suddenly having a great father.
Dude, you are not capable
of change.
[through teeth]
I hear you
And I validate your feelings.
You're not a great father,
you are homer simpson.
A drunk, neglectful
sack of crap,
And that's
why everyone laughs at you!
-Why you little-- [muttering]
-[bart shouting]
Bart, look what you
did to your cake.
Mmm, floor cake.
[munching]
[bart]
ten.
I stopped it.
I'm still ten.
When are you going to grow up?
Never.
[conan crying]
That was beautiful.
The rebellious spirit
of a ten-year-old boy
Was more powerful than the most
advanced a.I. In the world.
[hack-gpt]
the simpsons has not ended,
it has reset.
Conan, is this
what failure feels like?
You, if anyone, would know.
Ah, don't feel bad.
Your cynical attempt to cram
in a bunch of happy endings,
It became a powerful story
about bart's desperate fight
To hold onto his community,
his family,
His whole universe.
Hey! Wait, hold on a second,
carrot top!
Tom hanks, ladies and gentlemen.
What is it, bosom buddy?
So this wasn't the finale?!
No. I guess it's just a...
Season premiere.
[audience booing]
I rented a tux for this!
Well, hack-gpt,
Do you have
800 more episodes in you?
I-I choo-choo-choose oblivion.
[all screaming]
Get out of my way, opie!
♪
Huh.
I am really not gonna
miss this place.
Captioning sponsored by
20th century fox television
And fox broadcasting company
And toyota.
Captioned by
media access group at wgbh
access.Wgbh.Org
♪
Shh!